When you look for these support groups, they all have vague upbeat names. My Thursday
evening group for blood parasites, it's called Free and Clear.
The group I go to for brain parasites is called Above and Beyond.
And Sunday afternoon at Remaining Men Together in the basement of Trinity Episcopal, this
woman is here, again.
Worse than that, I can't cry with her watching.
This should be my favorite part, being held and crying with Big Bob without hope. We all
work so hard all the time. This is the only place I ever really relax and give up.
This is my vacation.

I went to my first support group two years ago, after I'd gone to my doctor about my
insomnia, again.

Three weeks and I hadn't slept. Three weeks without sleep, and everything becomes an out-
of-body experience. My doctor said, "Insomnia is just the symptom of something larger. Find

out what's actually wrong. Listen to your body."
I just wanted to sleep. I wanted little blue Amytal Sodium capsules, 200milligram-sized. I
wanted red-and-blue Tuinal bullet capsules, lipstick-red Seconals.
My doctor told me to chew valerian root and get more exercise. Eventually I'd fall asleep.
The bruised, old fruit way my face had collapsed, you would've thought I was dead.
My doctor said, if I wanted to see real pain, I should swing by First Eucharist on a Tuesday
night. See the brain parasites. See the degenerative bone diseases. The organic brain
dysfunctions. See the cancer patients getting by.
So I went.
The first group I went to, there were introductions: this isAlice , this is Brenda, this isDover .
Everyone smiles with that invisible gun to their head.
I never give my real name at support groups.
The little skeleton of a woman named Chloe with the seat of her pants hanging down sad and
empty, Chloe tells me the worst thing about her brain parasites was no one would have sex
with her. Here she was, so close to death that her life insurance policy had paid off with

seventy-five thousand bucks, and all Chloe wanted was to get laid for the last time. Not
intimacy, sex.
What does a guy say? What can you say, I mean.
All this dying had started with Chloe being a little tired, and now Chloe was too bored to go in
for treatment. Pornographic movies, she had pornographic movies at home in her apartment.
During the French Revolution, Chloe told me, the women in prison, the duchesses,
baronesses, marquises, whatever, they would screw any man who'd climb on top. Chloe
breathed against my neck. Climb on top. Pony up, did I know. Screwing passed the time.
La petite mort, the French called it.
Chloe had pornographic movies, if I was interested. Amyl nitrate. Lubricants.
Normal times, I'd be sporting an erection. Our Chloe, however, is a skeleton dipped in yellow
wax.
Chloe looking the way she is, I am nothing. Not even nothing. Still, Chloe's shoulder pokes
mine when we sit around a circle on the shag carpet. We close our eyes. This was Chloe's turn
to lead us in guided meditation, and she talked us into the garden of serenity. Chloe talked us
up the hill to the palace of seven doors. Inside the palace were the seven doors, the green
door, the yellow door, the orange door, and Chloe talked us through opening each door, the
blue door, the red door, the white door, and finding what was there.
Eyes closed, we imagined our pain as a ball of white healing light floating around our feet and
rising to our knees, our waist, our chest. Our chakras opening. The heart chakra. The head
chakra. Chloe talked us into caves where we met our power animal. Mine was a penguin.
Ice covered the floor of the cave, and the penguin said, slide. Without any effort, we slid
through tunnels and galleries.
Then it was time to hug.
Open your eyes.
This was therapeutic physical contact, Chloe said. We should all choose a partner. Chloe threw
herself around my head and cried. She had strapless underwear at home, and cried. Chloe had
oils and handcuffs, and cried as I watched the second hand on my watch go around eleven
times.
So I didn't cry at my first support group, two years ago. I didn't cry at my second or my third
support group, either. I didn't cry at blood parasites or bowel cancers or organic brain
dementia.
This is how it is with insomnia. Everything is so far away, a copy of a copy of a copy. The

insomnia distance of everything, you can't touch anything and nothing can touch you.
Then there was Bob. The first time I went to testicular cancer, Bob the big moosie, the big
cheesebread moved in on top of me in Remaining Men Together and started crying. The big
moosie treed right across the room when it was hug time, his arms at his sides, his shoulders
rounded. His big moosie chin on his chest, his eyes already shrink-wrapped in tears. Shuffling
his feet, knees together invisible steps, Bob slid across the basement floor to heave himself on
me.
Bob pancaked down on me.
Bob's big arms wrapped around me.
Big Bob was a juicer, he said. All those salad days on Dianabol and then the racehorse steroid,
Wistrol. His own gym, Big Bob owned a gym. He'd been married three times. He'd done
product endorsements, and had I seen him on television, ever? The whole how-to program
about expanding your chest was practically his invention.
Strangers with this kind of honesty make me go a big rubbery one, if you know what I mean.
Bob didn't know. Maybe only one of his huevos had ever descended, and he knew this was a
risk factor. Bob told me about postoperative hormone therapy.
A lot of bodybuilders shooting too much testosterone would get what they called bitch tits.
I had to ask what Bob meant by huevos.
Huevos, Bob said. Gonads. Nuts. Jewels. Testes. Balls. InMexico , where you buy your steroids,
they call them "eggs."
Divorce, divorce, divorce, Bob said and showed me a wallet photo of himself huge and naked
at first glance, in a posing strap at some contest. It's a stupid way to live, Bob said, but when
you're pumped and shaved on stage, totally shredded with body fat down to around two
percent and the diuretics leave you cold and hard as concrete to touch, You're blind from the
lights, and deaf from the feedback rush of the sound system until the judge orders: "Extend
your right quad, flex and hold."
"Extend your left arm, flex the bicep and hold."
This is better than real life.
Fast-forward, Bob said, to the cancer. Then he was bankrupt. He had two grown kids who
wouldn't return his calls.
The cure for bitch tits was for the doctor to cut up under the pectorals and drain any fluid.
This was all I remember because then Bob was closing in around me with his arms, and his

head was folding down to cover me. Then I was lost inside oblivion, dark and silent and
complete, and when I finally stepped away from his soft chest, the front of Bob's shirt was a
wet mask of how I looked crying.
That was two years ago, at my first night with Remaining Men Together.
At almost every meeting since then, Big Bob has made me cry.
I never went back to the doctor. I never chewed the valerian root.
This was freedom. Losing all hope was freedom. If I didn't say anything, people in a group
assumed the worst. They cried harder. I cried harder. Look up into the stars and you're gone.
Walking home after a support group, I felt more alive than I'd ever felt. I wasn't host to cancer
or blood parasites; I was the little warm center that the life of the world crowded around.
And I slept. Babies don't sleep this well.
Every evening, I died, and every evening, I was born.
Resurrected.
Until tonight, two years of success until tonight, because I can't cry with this woman
watching me. Because I can't hit bottom, I can't be saved. My tongue thinks it has flocked
wallpaper, I'm biting the inside of my mouth so much. I haven't slept in four days.
With her watching, I'm a liar. She's a fake. She's the liar. At the introductions tonight, we
introduced ourselves: I'm Bob, I'm Paul, I'm Terry, I'm David.
I never give my real name.
"'This is cancer, right?" she said.
Then she said, "Well, hi, I'm Marla Singer."
Nobody ever told Marla what kind of cancer. Then we were all busy cradling our inner child.
The man still crying against her neck, Marla takes another drag on her cigarette.
I watch her from between Bob's shuddering tits.
To Marla I'm a fake. Since the second night I saw her, I can't sleep. Still, I was the first fake,
unless, maybe all these people are faking with their lesions and their coughs and tumors, even
Big Bob, the big moosie. The big cheesebread.
Would you just look at his sculpted hair.

Marla smokes and rolls her eyes now.
In this one moment, Marla's lie reflects my lie, and all I can see are lies. In the middle of all
their truth. Everyone clinging and risking to share their worst fear, that their death is coming
head-on and the barrel of a gun is pressed against the back of their throats. Well, Marla is
smoking and rolling her eyes, and me, I'm buried under a sobbing carpet, and all of a sudden
even death and dying rank right down there with plastic flowers on video as a non-event.
"Bob," I say, "you're crushing me." I try to whisper, then I don't. "Bob." I try to keep my voice
down, then I'm yelling. "Bob, I have to go to the can."
A mirror hangs over the sink in the bathroom. If the pattern holds, I'll see Marla Singer at
Above and Beyond, the parasitic brain dysfunction group. Marla will be there. Of course,
Marla will be there, and what I'll do is sit next to her. And after the introductions and the
guided meditation, the seven doors of the palace, the white healing ball of light, after we open
our chakras, when it comes time to hug, I'll grab the little bitch.
Her arms squeezed tight against her sides, and my lips pressed against her ear, I'll say, Marla,
you big fake, you get out.
This is the one real thing in my life, and you're wrecking it.
You big tourist.
The next time we meet, I'll say, Marla, I can't sleep with you here. I need this. Get out.

Chapter 3

YOUWAKEUPatAirHarbor International.
Every takeoff and landing, when the plane banked too much to one side, I prayed for a crash.
That moment cures my insomnia with narcolepsy when we might die helpless and packed
human tobacco in the fuselage.
This is how I met Tyler Durden.
You wake up at O'Hare.
You wake up at LaGuardia.
You wake up atLogan .

Tylerworked part-time as a movie projectionist. Because of his nature,Tyler could only work
night jobs. If a projectionist called in sick, the union calledTyler .
Some people are night people. Some people are day people. I could only work a day job.
You wake up at Dulles.
Life insurance pays off triple if you die on a business trip. I prayed for wind shear effect. I
prayed for pelicans sucked into the turbines and loose bolts and ice on the wings. On takeoff,
as the plane pushed down the runway and the flaps tilted up, with our seats in their full
upright position and our tray tables stowed and all personal carry-on baggage in the overhead
compartment, as the end of the runway ran up to meet us with our smoking materials
extinguished, I prayed for a crash.
You wake up at Love Field.
In a projection booth,Tyler did changeovers if the theater was old enough. With changeovers,
you have two projectors in the booth, and one projector is running.
I know this becauseTyler knows this.
The second projector is set up with the next reel of film. Most movies are six or seven small
reels of film played in a certain order. Newer theaters, they splice all the reels together into one
five-foot reel. This way, you don't have to run two projectors and do changeovers, switch back
and forth, reel one, switch, reel two on the other projector, switch, reel three on the first
projector.
Switch.
You wake up at SeaTac.
I study the people on the laminated airline seat card. A woman floats in the ocean, her brown
hair spread out behind her, her seat cushion clutched to her chest. The eyes are wide open,
but the woman doesn't smile or frown. In another picture, people calm as Hindu cows reach
up from their seats toward oxygen masks sprung out of the ceiling.
This must be an emergency.
Oh.
We've lost cabin pressure.
You wake up, and you're at Willow Run.
Old theater, new theater, to ship a movie to the next theater,Tyler has to break the movie back
down to the original six or seven reels. The small reels pack into a pair of hexagonal steel

suitcases. Each suitcase has a handle on top. Pick one up, and you'll dislocate a shoulder.
They weigh that much.
Tyler's a banquet waiter, waiting tables at a hotel, downtown, andTyler 's a projectionist with
the projector operator's union. I don't know how longTyler had been working on all those
nights I couldn't sleep.
The old theaters that run a movie with two projectors, a projectionist has to stand right there
to change projectors at the exact second so the audience never sees the break when one reel
starts and one reel ran out. You have to look for the white dots in the top, right-hand corner of
the screen. This is the warning. Watch the movie, and you'll see two dots at the end of a reel.
"Cigarette burns," they're called in the business.
The first white dot, this is the two-minute warning. You get the second projector started so it
will be running up to speed.
The second white dot is the five-second warning. Excitement. You're standing between the
two projectors and the booth is sweating hot from the xenon bulbs that if you looked right at
them you're blind. The first dot flashes on the screen. The sound in a movie comes from a big
speaker behind the screen. The projectionist booth is soundproof because inside the booth is
the racket of sprockets snapping film past the lens at six feet a second, ten frames a foot, sixty
frames a second snapping through, clattering Gatling-gun fire. The two projectors running,
you stand between and hold the shutter lever on each. On really old projectors, you have an
alarm on the hub of the feed reel.
Even after the movie's on television, the warning dots will still be there. Even on airplane
movies.
As most of the movie rolls onto the take-up reel, the take-up reel turns slower and the feed
reel has to turn faster. At the end of a reel, the feed reel turns so fast the alarm will start ringing
to warn you that a changeover is coming up.
The dark is hot from the bulbs inside the projectors, and the alarm is ringing. Stand there
between the two projectors with a lever in each hand, and watch the corner of the screen. The
second dot flashes. Count to five. Switch one shutter closed. At the same time, open the other
shutter.
Changeover.
The movie goes on.
Nobody in the audience has any idea.
The alarm is on the feed reel so the movie projectionist can nap. A movie projectionist does a
lot he's not supposed to. Not every projector has the alarm. At home, you'll sometimes wake

up in your dark bed with the terror you've fallen asleep in the booth and missed a changeover.
The audience will be cursing you. The audience, their movie dream is ruined, and the manager
will be calling the union.
You wake up at Krissy Field.
The charm of traveling is everywhere I go, tiny life. I go to the hotel, tiny soap, tiny shampoos,
single-serving butter, tiny mouthwash and a single-use toothbrush. Fold into the standard
airplane seat. You're a giant. The problem is your shoulders are too big. YourAlice in
Wonderland legs are all of a sudden miles so long they touch the feet of the person in front.
Dinner arrives, a miniature do-it-yourself Chicken Cordon Bleu hobby kit, sort of a put-it
together project to keep you busy.
The pilot has turned on the seat-belt sign, and we would ask you to refrain from moving
about the cabin.
You wake up at Meigs Field.
Sometimes, Tyler wakes up in the dark, buzzing with the terror that he's missed a reel change
or the movie has broken or the movie has slipped just enough in the projector that the
sprockets are punching a line of holes through the sound track.
After a movie has been sprocket run, the light of the bulb shines through the sound track and
instead of talk, you're blasted with the helicopter blade sound of whop whop whop as each
burst of light comes through a sprocket hole.
What else a projectionist shouldn't do:Tyler makes slides out of the best single frames from a
movie. The first full frontal movie anyone can remember had the naked actress Angle
Dickinson.
By the time a print of this movie had shipped from the West Coast theaters to the East Coast
theaters, the nude scene was gone. One projectionist took a frame. Another projectionist took
a frame. Everybody wanted to make a naked slide of Angle Dickinson. Porno got into theaters
and these projectionists, some guys they built collections that got epic.
You wake up at Boeing Field.
You wake up at LAX.
We have an almost empty flight, tonight, so feel free to fold the armrests up into the
seatbacks and stretch out. You stretch out, zigzag, knees bent, waist bent, elbows bent across
three or four seats. I set my watch two hours earlier or three hours later, Pacific, Mountain,
Central, or Eastern time; lose an hour, gain an hour.
This is your life, and it's ending one minute at a time.
You wake up at Cleveland Hopkins.
You wake up at SeaTac, again.
You're a projectionist and you're tired and angry, but mostly you're bored so you start by
taking a single frame of pornography collected by some other projectionist that you find
stashed away in the booth, and you splice this frame of a lunging red penis or a yawning wet
vagina closeup into another feature movie.
This is one of those pet adventures, when the dog and cat are left behind by a traveling family
and must find their way home. In reel three, just after the dog and cat, who have human voices
and talk to each other, have eaten out of a garbage can, there's the flash of an erection.
Tylerdoes this.
A single frame in a movie is on the screen for one-sixtieth of a second. Divide a second into
sixty equal parts. That's how long the erection is. Towering four stories tall over the popcorn
auditorium, slippery red and terrible, and no one sees it.
You wake up atLogan , again.
This is a terrible way to travel. I go to meetings my boss doesn't want to attend. I take notes.
I'll get back to you.
Wherever I'm going, I'll be there to apply the formula. I'll keep the secret intact.
It's simple arithmetic.
It's a story problem.
If a new car built by my company leavesChicago traveling west at 60 miles per hour, and the
rear differential locks up, and the car crashes and burns with everyone trapped inside, does my
company initiate a recall?
You take the population of vehicles in the field (A) and multiply it by the probable rate of
failure (B), then multiply the result by the average cost of an out-of-court settlement (C).
A times B times C equals X. This is what it will cost if we don't initiate a recall.
If X is greater than the cost of a recall, we recall the cars and no one gets hurt.
If X is less than the cost of a recall, then we don't recall.
Everywhere I go, there's the burned-up wadded-up shell of a car waiting for me. I know where
all the skeletons are. Consider this my job security.
Hotel time, restaurant food. Everywhere I go, I make tiny friendships with the people sitting
beside me fromLogan to Krissy to Willow Run.

What I am is a recall campaign coordinator, I tell the single-serving friend sitting next to me,
but I'm working toward a career as a dishwasher.
You wake up at O'Hare, again.
Tylerspliced a penis into everything after that. Usually, close-ups, or aGrand Canyon vagina
with an echo, four stories tall and twitching with blood pressure as Cinderella danced with her
Prince Charming and people watched. Nobody complained. People ate and drank, but the
evening wasn't the same. People feel sick or start to cry and don't know why. Only a
hummingbird could have caughtTyler at work.
You wake up at JFK.
I melt and swell at the moment of landing when one wheel thuds on the runway but the plane
leans to one side and hangs in the decision to right itself or roll. For this moment, nothing
matters. Look up into the stars and you're gone. Not your luggage. Nothing matters. Not your
bad breath. The windows are dark outside and the turbine engines roar backward. The cabin
hangs at the wrong angle under the roar of the turbines, and you will never have to file
another expense account claim. Receipt required for items over twenty-five dollars. You will
never have to get another haircut.
A thud, and the second wheel hits the tarmac. The staccato of a hundred seatbelt buckles
snapping open, and the single-use friend you almost died sitting next to says:
I hope you make your connection.
Yeah, me too.
And this is how long your moment lasted. And life goes on.
And somehow, by accident, Tyler and I met.
It was time for a vacation.
You wake up at LAX.
Again.
How I metTyler was I went to a nude beach. This was the very end of summer, and I was
asleep.Tyler was naked and sweating, gritty with sand, his hair wet and stringy, hanging in his
face.
Tylerhad been around a long time before we met.
Tylerwas pulling driftwood logs out of the surf and dragging them up the beach. In the wet
sand, he'd already planted a half circle of logs so they stood a few inches apart and as tall as

his eyes. There were four logs, and when I woke up, I watchedTyler pull a fifth log up the
beach.Tyler dug a hole under one end of the log, then lifted the other end until the log slid
into the hole and stood there at a slight angle.
You wake up at the beach.
We were the only people on the beach.
With a stick,Tyler drew a straight line in the sand several feet away.Tyler went back to
straighten the log by stamping sand around its base.
I was the only person watching this.
Tylercalled over, "Do you know what time it is?"
I always wear a watch.
"Do you know what time it is?"
I asked, where?
"Right here,"Tyler said. "Right now."
It was 4:06 P.m.
After a while,Tyler sat cross-legged in the shadow of the standing logs.Tyler sat for a few
minutes, got up and took a swim, pulled on a T-shirt and a pair of sweatpants, and started to
leave. I had to ask.
I had to know whatTyler was doing while I was asleep.
If I could wake up in a different place, at a different time, could I wake up as a different
person?
I asked ifTyler was an artist.
Tylershrugged and showed me how the five standing logs were wider at the base.Tyler
showed me the line he'd drawn in the sand, and how he'd use the line to gauge the shadow
cast by each log.
Sometimes, you wake up and have to ask where you are.

WhatTyler had created was the shadow of a giant hand. Only now the fingers were Nosferatu-
long and the thumb was too short, but he said how at exactly four-thirty the hand was perfect.

The giant shadow hand was perfect for one minute, and for one perfect minuteTyler had sat in
the palm of a perfection he'd created himself.

You wake up, and you're nowhere.
One minute was enough,Tyler said, a person had to work hard for it, but a minute of
perfection was worth the effort. A moment was the most you could ever expect from
perfection.
You wake up, and that's enough.
His name was Tyler Durden, and he was a movie projectionist with the union, and he was a
banquet waiter at a hotel, downtown, and he gave me his phone number.
And this is how we met.
A L L T H E U S U A L brain parasites are here, tonight. Above and Beyond always gets a big
turnout. This is Peter. This is Aldo. This is Marcy.
Hi.
The introductions, everybody, this is Marla Singer, and this is her first time with us.
Hi, Marla.
At Above and Beyond, we start with the Catch-Up Rap. The group isn't called Parasitic Brain
Parasites. You'll never hear anyone say "parasite." Everybody is always getting better. Oh, this
new medication. Everyone's always just turned the corner. Still, everywhere, there's the squint
of a five-day headache. A woman wipes at involuntary tears. Everyone gets a name tag, and
people you've met every Tuesday night for a year, they come at you, handshake hand ready
and their eyes on your name tag.
I don't believe we've met.
No one will ever say parasite. They'll say, agent.
They don't say cure. They'll say, treatment.
In Catch-Up Rap, someone will say how the agent has spread into his spinal column and now
all of a sudden he'll have no control of his left hand. The agent, someone will say, has dried
the lining of his brain so now the brain pulls away from the inside of his skull, causing seizures.
The last time I was here, the woman named Chloe announced the only good news she had.
Chloe pushed herself to her feet against the wooden arms of her chair and said she no longer
had any fear of death.
Tonight, after the introductions and Catch-Up Rap, a girl I don't know, with a name tag that
says Glenda, says she's Chloe's sister and that at two in the morning last Tuesday, Chloe finally
died.

Oh, this should be so sweet. For two years, Chloe's been crying in my arms during hug time,
and now she's dead, dead in the ground, dead in an urn, mausoleum, columbarium. Oh, the
proof that one day you're thinking and hauling yourself around, and the next, you're cold
fertilizer, worm buffet. This is the amazing miracle of death, and it should be so sweet if it
weren't for, oh, that one.
Marla.
Oh, and Marla's looking at me again, singled out among all the brain parasites.
Liar.
Faker.
Marla's the faker. You're the faker. Everyone around when they wince or twitch and fall down
barking and the crotch of their jeans turns dark blue, well, it's all just a big act.
Guided meditation all of a sudden won't take me anywhere, tonight. Behind each of the seven
palace doors, the green door, the orange door, Marla. The blue door, Marla stands there. Liar.
In the guided meditation through the cave of my power animal, my power animal is Marla.
Smoking her cigarette, Marla, rolling her eyes. Liar. Black hair and pillowy French lips. Faker.
Italian dark leather sofa lips. You can't escape.
Chloe was the genuine article.
Chloe was the way Joni Mitchell's skeleton would look if you made it smile and walk around a
party being extra special nice to everyone. Picture Chloe's popular skeleton the size of an
insect, running through the vaults and galleries of her innards at two in the morning. Her
pulse a siren overhead, announcing: Prepare for death in ten, in nine, in eight seconds. Death
will commence in seven, six . . .
At night, Chloe ran around the maze of her own collapsing veins and burst tubes spraying hot
lymph. Nerves surface as trip wires in the tissue. Abscesses swell in the tissue around her as
hot white pearls.
The overhead announcement, prepare to evacuate bowels in ten, in nine, eight, seven.
Prepare to evacuate soul in ten, in nine, eight.
Chloe's splashing through the ankle-deep backup of renal fluid from her failed kidneys.
Death will commence in five.
Five, four.
Four.

Around her, parasitic life spray paints her heart.
Four, three.
Three, two.
Chloe climbs hand-over-hand up the curdled lining of her own throat.
Death to commence in three, in two.
Moonlight shines in through the open mouth.
Prepare for the last breath, now.
Evacuate.
Now.
Soul clear of body.
Now.
Death commences.
Now.
Oh, this should be so sweet, the remembered warm jumble of Chloe still in my arms and Chloe
dead somewhere.
But no, I'm watched by Marla.
In guided meditation, I open my arms to receive my inner child, and the child is Marla
smoking her cigarette. No white healing ball of light. Liar. No chakras. Picture your chakras
opening as flowers and at the center of each is a slow motion explosion of sweet light.
Liar.
My chakras stay closed.
When meditation ends, everyone is stretching and twisting their heads and pulling each other
to their feet in preparation. Therapeutic physical contact. For the hug, I cross in three steps to
stand against Marla who looks up into my face as I watch everyone else for the cue.
Let's all, the cue comes, embrace someone near us.
My arms clamp around Marla.

Pick someone special to you, tonight.
Marla's cigarette hands are pinned to her waist.
Tell this someone how you feel.
Marla doesn't have testicular cancer. Marla doesn't have tuberculosis. She isn't dying. Okay in
that brainy brain-food philosophy way, we're all dying, but Marla isn't dying the way Chloe
was dying.
The cue comes, share yourself.
So, Marla, how do you like them apples?
Share yourself completely.
So, Marla, get out. Get out. Get out.
Go ahead and cry if you have to.
Marla stares up at me. Her eyes are brown. Her earlobes pucker around earring holes, no
earrings. Her chapped lips are frosted with dead skin.
Go ahead and cry.
"You're not dying either," Marla says.
Around us, couples stand sobbing, propped against each other.
"You tell on me," Marla says, "and I'll tell on you."
Then we can split the week, I say. Marla can have bone disease, brain parasites, and
tuberculosis. I'll keep testicular cancer, blood parasites, and organic brain dementia.
Marla says, "What about ascending bowel cancers?"
The girl has done her homework.
We'll split bowel cancer. She gets it the first and third Sunday of every month.
"No," Marla says. No, she wants it all. The cancers, the parasites. Marla's eyes narrow. She
never dreamed she could feel so 'smarvelous. She actually felt alive. Her skin was clearing up.
All her life, she never saw a dead person. There was no real sense of life because she had
nothing to contrast it with. Oh, but now there was dying and death and loss and grief.
Weeping and shuddering, terror and remorse. Now that she knows where we're all going,
Marla feels every moment of her life.
No, she wasn't leaving any group.
"Not and go back to the way life felt before," Marla says. "I used to work in a funeral home to
feel good about myself, just the fact I was breathing. So what if I couldn't get a job in my
field."
Then go back to your funeral home, I say.
"Funerals are nothing compared to this," Marla says. "Funerals are all abstract ceremony.
Here, you have a real experience of death."
Couples around the two of us are drying their tears, sniffing, patting each other on the back
and letting go.
We can't both come, I tell her.

"Then don't come." I need this. "Then go to funerals." Everyone else has broken apart and
they're joining hands for the closing prayer. I let Marla go. "How long have you been coming
here?" The closing prayer. Two years. A man in the prayer circle takes my hand. A man takes
Marla's hand. These prayers start and usually, my breathing is blown. Oh, bless us. Oh, bless us
in our anger and our fear. "Two years?" Marla tilts her head to whisper. Oh, bless us and hold
us. Anyone who might've noticed me in two years has either died or recovered and never
came back. Help us and help us. "Okay," Marla says, "okay, okay, you can have testicular
cancer." Big Bob the big cheesebread crying all over me. Thanks. Bring us to our destiny. Bring
us peace. "Don't mention it." This is how I met Marla.

Chapter 4

THE SECURITY TASK force guy explained everything to me.
Baggage handlers can ignore a ticking suitcase. The security task force guy, he called
baggage handlers Throwers. Modern bombs don't tick. But a suitcase that vibrates, the
baggage handlers, the Throwers, have to call the police.
How I came to live withTyler is because most airlines have this policy about vibrating
baggage.
My flight back from Dulles, I had everything in that one bag. When you travel a lot, you learn
to pack the same for every trip. Six white shirts. Two black trousers. The bare minimum you

need to survive.
Traveling alarm clock.
Cordless electric razor.
Toothbrush.
Six pair underwear.
Six pair black socks.
It turns out, my suitcase was vibrating on departure from Dulles, according to the security task
force guy, so the police took it off the flight. Everything was in that bag. My contact lens stuff.
One red tie with blue stripes. One blue tie with red stripes. These are regimental stripes, not
club tie stripes. And one solid red tie.
A list of all these things used to hang on the inside of my bedroom door at home.
Home was a condominium on the fifteenth floor of a high-rise, a sort of filing cabinet for
widows and young professionals. The marketing brochure promised a foot of concrete floor,
ceiling, and wall between me and any adjacent stereo or turned-up television. A foot of
concrete and air conditioning, you couldn't open the windows so even with maple flooring
and dimmer switches, all seventeen hundred airtight feet would smell like the last meal you
cooked or your last trip to the bathroom.
Yeah, and there were butcher block countertops and low-voltage track lighting.
Still, a foot of concrete is important when your next-door neighbor lets the battery on her
hearing aid go and has to watch her game shows at full blast. Or when a volcanic blast of
burning gas and debris that used to be your living-room set and personal effects blows out
your floor-to-ceiling windows and sails down flaming to leave just your condo, only yours, a
gutted charred concrete hole in the cliffside of the building.
These things happen.
Everything, including your set of hand-blown green glass dishes with the tiny bubbles and
imperfections, little bits of sand, proof they were crafted by the honest, simple, hard-working
indigenous aboriginal peoples of wherever, well, these dishes all get blown out by the blast.
Picture the floor-to-ceiling drapes blown out and flaming to shreds in the hot wind.
Fifteen floors over the city, this stuff comes flaming and bashing and shattering down on
everyone's car.
Me, while I'm heading west, asleep at Mach 0.83 or 455 miles an hour, true airspeed, the FBI is
bomb-squading my suitcase on a vacated runway back at Dulles. Nine times out of ten, the
security task force guy says, the vibration is an electric razor. This was my cordless electric

razor. The other time, it's a vibrating dildo.
The security task force guy told me this. This was at my destination, without my suitcase,
where I was about to cab it home and find my flannel sheets shredded on the ground.
Imagine, the task force guy says, telling a passenger on arrival that a dildo kept her baggage
on the East Coast. Sometimes it's even a man. It's airline policy not to imply ownership in the
event of a dildo. Use the indefinite article.
A dildo.
Never your dildo.
Never, ever say the dildo accidentally turned itself on.
A dildo activated itself and created an emergency situation that required evacuating your
baggage.
Rain was falling when I woke up for my connection in Stapleton.
Rain was falling when I woke up on our final approach to home.
An announcement told us to please take this opportunity to check around our seats for any
personal belongings we might have left behind. Then the announcement said my name.
Would I please meet with an airline representative waiting at the gate.
I set my watch back three hours, and it was still after midnight.
There was the airline representative at the gate, and there was the security task force guy to
say, ha, your electric razor kept your checked baggage at Dulles. The task force guy called the
baggage handlers Throwers. Then he called them Rampers. To prove things could be worse,
the guy told me at least it wasn't a dildo. Then, maybe because I'm a guy and he's a guy and
it's one o'clock in the morning, maybe to make me laugh, the guy said industry slang for flight
attendant was Space Waitress. Or Air Mattress. It looked like the guy was wearing a pilot's
uniform, white shirt with little epaulets and a blue tie. My luggage had been cleared, he said,
and would arrive the next day.
The security guy asked my name and address and phone number, and then he asked me what
was the difference between a condom and a cockpit.
"You can only get one prick into a condom," he said.
I cabbed home on my last ten bucks.
The local police had been asking a lot of questions, too.
My electric razor, which wasn't a bomb, was still three time zones behind me.

Something which was a bomb, a big bomb, had blasted my clever Njurunda coffee tables in
the shape of a lime green yin and an orange yang that fit together to make a circle. Well they
were splinters, now.
My Haparanda sofa group with the orange slip covers, design by Erika Pekkari, it was trash,
now.
And I wasn't the only slave to my nesting instinct. The people I know who used to sit in the
bathroom with pornography, now they sit in the bathroom with their IKEA furniture catalogue.
We all have the same Johanneshov armchair in the Strinne green stripe pattern. Mine fell
fifteen stories, burning, into a fountain.
We all have the same Rislampa/Har paper lamps made from wire and environmentally friendly
unbleached paper. Mine are confetti.
All that sitting in the bathroom.
The Alle cutlery service. Stainless steel. Dishwasher safe.
The Vild hall clock made of galvanized steel, oh, I had to have that.
The Klipsk shelving unit, oh, yeah.
Hemlig hat boxes. Yes.
The street outside my high-rise was sparkling and scattered with all this.
The Mommala quilt-cover set. Design by Tomas Harila and available in the following:
Orchid.
Fuschia.
Cobalt.
Ebony.
Jet.
Eggshell or heather.
It took my whole life to buy this stuff.
The easy-care textured lacquer of my Kalix occasional tables.

My Steg nesting tables.
You buy furniture. You tell yourself, this is the last sofa I will ever need in my life. Buy the sofa,
then for a couple years you're satisfied that no matter what goes wrong, at least you've got
your sofa issue handled. Then the right set of dishes. Then the perfect bed. The drapes. The
rug.
Then you're trapped in your lovely nest, and the things you used to own, now they own you.
Until I got home from the airport.
The doorman steps out of the shadows to say, there's been an accident. The police, they were
here and asked a lot of questions.
The police think maybe it was the gas. Maybe the pilot light on the stove went out or a burner
was left on, leaking gas, and the gas rose to the ceiling, and the gas filled the condo from
ceiling to floor in every room. The condo was seventeen hundred square feet with high
ceilings and for days and days, the gas must've leaked until every room was full. When the
rooms were filled to the floor, the compressor at the base of the refrigerator clicked on.
Detonation.
The floor-to-ceiling windows in their aluminum frames went out and the sofas and the lamps
and dishes and sheet sets in flames, and the high school annuals and the diplomas and
telephone. Everything blasting out from the fifteenth floor in a sort of solar flare.
Oh, not my refrigerator. I'd collected shelves full of different mustards, some stone-ground,
some English pub style. There were fourteen different flavors of fat-free salad dressing, and
seven kinds of capers.
I know, I know, a house full of condiments and no real food.
The doorman blew his nose and something went into his handkerchief with the good slap of a
pitch into a catcher's mitt.
You could go up to the fifteen floor, the doorman said, but nobody could go into the unit.
Police orders. The police had been asking, did I have an old girlfriend who'd want to do this or
did I make an enemy of somebody who had access to dynamite.
"It wasn't worth going up," the doorman said. "All that's left is the concrete shell."
The police hadn't ruled out arson. No one had smelled gas. The doorman raises an eyebrow.
This guy spent his time flirting with the day maids and nurses who worked in the big units on
the top floor and waited in the lobby chairs for their rides after work. Three years I lived here,
and the doorman still sat reading his Ellery Queen magazine every night while I shifted
packages and bags to unlock the front door and let myself in.

The doorman raises an eyebrow and says how some people will go on a long trip and leave a
candle, a long, long candle burning in a big puddle of gasoline. People with financial
difficulties do this stuff. People who want out from under.
I asked to use the lobby phone.
"A lot of young people try to impress the world and buy too many things," the doorman said.
I called Tyler.
The phone rang in Tyler's rented house on Paper Street.
Oh, Tyler, please deliver me.
And the phone rang.
The doorman leaned into my shoulder and said, "A lot of young people don't know what they
really want."
Oh, Tyler, please rescue me.
And the phone rang.
"Young people, they think they want the whole world."
Deliver me from Swedish furniture.
Deliver me from clever art.
And the phone rang and Tyler answered.
"If you don't know what you want," the doorman said, "you end up with a lot you don't."
May I never be complete.
May I never be content.
May I never be perfect.
Deliver me, Tyler, from being perfect and complete.
Tyler and I agreed to meet at a bar.
The doorman asked for a number where the police could reach me. It was still raining. My
Audi was still parked in the lot, but a Dakapo halogen torchiere was speared through the
windshield.

Tyler and I, we met and drank a lot of beer, and Tyler said, yes, I could move in with him, but I
would have to do him a favor.
The next day, my suitcase would arrive with the bare minimum, six shirts, six pair of
underwear.
There, drunk in a bar where no one was watching and no one would care, I asked Tyler what
he wanted me to do.
Tyler said, "I want you to hit me as hard as you can."

Chapter 5

TWO SCREENS INTO my demo to Microsoft, I taste blood and have to start swallowing. My
boss doesn't know the material, but he won't let me run the demo with a black eye and half
my face swollen from the stitches inside my cheek. The stitches have come loose, and I can
feel them with my tongue against the inside of my cheek. Picture snarled fishing line on the
beach. I can picture them as the black stitches on a dog after it's been fixed, and I keep
swallowing blood. My boss is making the presentation from my script, and I'm running the
laptop projector so I'm off to one side of the room, in the dark.
More of my lips are sticky with blood as I try to lick the blood off, and when the lights come
up, I will turn to consultants Ellen and Walter and Norbert and Linda from Microsoft and say,
thank you for coming, my mouth shining with blood and blood climbing the cracks between
my teeth.
You can swallow about a pint of blood before you're sick.
Fight club is tomorrow, and I'm not going to miss fight club.
Before the presentation, Walter from Microsoft smiles his steam shovel jaw like a marketing
tool tanned the color of a barbecued potato chip. Walter with his signet ring shakes my hand,
wrapped in his smooth soft hand and says, "I'd hate to see what happened to the other guy."
The first rule about fight club is you don't talk about fight club.
I tell Walter I fell.
I did this to myself.
Before the presentation, when I sat across from my boss, telling him where in the script each

slide cues and when I wanted to run the video segment, my boss says, "What do you get
yourself into every weekend?"
I just don't want to die without a few scars, I say. It's nothing anymore to have a beautiful
stock body. You see those cars that are completely stock cherry, right out of a dealer's
showroom in 1955, I always think, what a waste.
The second rule about fight club is you don't talk about fight club.
Maybe at lunch, the waiter comes to your table and the waiter has the two black eyes of a
giant panda from fight club last weekend when you saw him get his head pinched between
the concrete floor and the knee of a two-hundred pound stock boy who kept slamming a fist
into the bridge of the waiter's nose again and again in flat hard packing sounds you could
hear over all the yelling until the waiter caught enough breath and sprayed blood to say, stop.
You don't say anything because fight club exists only in the hours between when fight club
starts and when fight club ends.
You saw the kid who works in the copy center, a month ago you saw this kid who can't
remember to three-hole-punch an order or put colored slip sheets between the copy packets,
but this kid was a god for ten minutes when you saw him kick the air out of an account
representative twice his size then land on the man and pound him limp until the kid had to
stop. That's the third rule in fight club, when someone says stop, or goes limp, even if he's just
faking it, the fight is over. Every time you see this kid, you can't tell him what a great fight he
had.
Only two guys to a fight. One fight at a time. They fight without shirts or shoes. The fights go
on as long as they have to. Those are the other rules of fight club.
Who guys are in fight club is not who they are in the real world. Even if you told the kid in the
copy center that he had a good fight, you wouldn't be talking to the same man.
Who I am in fight club is not someone my boss knows.
After a night in fight club, everything in the real world gets the volume turned down. Nothing
can piss you off. Your word is law, and if other people break that law or question you, even
that doesn't piss you off.
In the real world, I'm a recall campaign coordinator in a shirt and tie, sitting in the dark with a
mouthful of blood and changing the overheads and slides as my boss tells Microsoft how he
chose a particular shade of pale cornflower blue for an icon.
The first fight club was just Tyler and I pounding on each other.
It used to be enough that when I came home angry and knowing that my life wasn't toeing
my five-year plan, I could clean my condominium or detail my car. Someday I'd be dead
without a scar and there would be a really nice condo and car. Really, really nice, until the dust

settled or the next owner. Nothing is static. Even the Mona Lira is falling apart. Since fight
club, I can wiggle half the teeth in my jaw.
Maybe self-improvement isn't the answer.
Tyler never knew his father.
Maybe self-destruction is the answer.
Tyler and I still go to fight club, together. Fight club is in the basement of a bar, now, after the
bar closes on Saturday night, and every week you go and there's more guys there.
Tyler gets under the one light in the middle of the black concrete basement and he can see
that light flickering back out of the dark in a hundred pairs of eyes. First thing Tyler yells is,
"The first rule about fight club is you don't talk about fight club.
"The second rule about fight club," Tyler yells, "is you don't talk about fight club."
Me, I knew my dad for about six years, but I don't remember anything. My dad, he starts a
new family in a new town about every six years. This isn't so much like a family as it's like he
sets up a franchise.
What you see at fight club is a generation of men raised by women.
Tyler standing under the one light in the after-midnight blackness of a basement full of men,
Tyler runs through the other rules: two men per fight, one fight at a time, no shoes no shirts,
fights go on as long as they have to.
"And the seventh rule," Tyler yells, "is if this is your first night at fight club, you have to fight."
Fight club is not football on television. You aren't watching a bunch of men you don't know
halfway around the world beating on each other live by satellite with a two-minute delay,
commercials pitching beer every ten minutes, and a pause now for station identification. After
you've been to fight club, watching football on television is watching pornography when you
could be having great sex.
Fight club gets to be your reason for going to the gym and keeping your hair cut short and
cutting your nails. The gyms you go to are crowded with guys trying to look like men, as if
being a man means looking the way a sculptor or an art director says.
Like Tyler says, even a snuffle looks pumped.
My father never went to college so it was really important I go to college. After college, I
called him long distance and said, now what?
My dad didn't know.

When I got a job and turned twenty-five, long distance, I said, now what? My dad didn't
know, so he said, get married.
I'm a thirty-year-old boy, and I'm wondering if another woman is really the answer I need.
What happens at fight club doesn't happen in words. Some guys need a fight every week. This
week, Tyler says it's the first fifty guys through the door and that's it. No more.
Last week, I tapped a guy and he and I got on the list for a fight. This guy must've had a bad
week, got both my arms behind my head in a full nelson and rammed my face into the
concrete floor until my teeth bit open the inside of my cheek and my eye was swollen shut and
was bleeding, and after I said, stop, I could look down and there was a print of half my face in
blood on the floor.
Tyler stood next to me, both of us looking down at the big O of my mouth with blood all
around it and the little slit of my eye staring up at us from the floor, and Tyler says, "Cool."
I shake the guy's hand and say, good fight.
This guy, he says, "How about next week?"
I try to smile against all the swelling, and I say, look at me. How about next month?
You aren't alive anywhere like you're alive at fight club. When it's you and one other guy
under that one light in the middle of all those watching. Fight club isn't about winning or
losing fights. Fight club isn't about words. You see a guy come to fight club for the first time,
and his ass is a loaf of white bread. You see this same guy here six months later, and he looks
carved out of wood. This guy trusts himself to handle anything. There's grunting and noise at
fight club like at the gym, but fight club isn't about looking good. There's hysterical shouting
in tongues like at church, and when you wake up Sunday afternoon you feel saved.
After my last fight, the guy who fought me mopped the floor while I called my insurance to
pre-approve a visit to the emergency room. At the hospital, Tyler tells them I fell down.
Sometimes, Tyler speaks for me.
I did this to myself.
Outside, the sun was coming up.
You don't talk about fight club because except for five hours from two until seven on Sunday
morning, fight club doesn't exist.
When we invented fight club, Tyler and I, neither of us had ever been in a fight before. If
you've never been in a fight, you wonder. About getting hurt, about what you're capable of
doing against another man. I was the first guy Tyler ever felt safe enough to ask, and we were
both drunk in a bar where no one would care so Tyler said, "I want you to do me a favor. I

want you to hit me as hard as you can."
I didn't want to, but Tyler explained it all, about not wanting to die without any scars, about
being tired of watching only professionals fight, and wanting to know more about himself.
About self-destruction.
At the time, my life just seemed too complete, and maybe we have to break everything to
make something better out of ourselves.
I looked around and said, okay. Okay, I say, but outside in the parking lot.
So we went outside, and I asked if Tyler wanted it in the face or in the stomach.
Tyler said, "Surprise me."
I said I had never hit anybody.
Tyler said, "So go crazy, man."
I said, close your eyes.
Tyler said, "No."
Like every guy on his first night in fight club, I breathed in and swung my fist in a roundhouse
at Tyler's jaw like in every cowboy movie we'd ever seen, and me, my fist connected with the
side of Tyler's neck.
Shit, I said, that didn't count. I want to try it again.
Tyler said, "Yeah it counted," and hit me, straight on, pox, just like a cartoon boxing glove on
a spring on Saturday morning cartoons, right in the middle of my chest and I fell back against
a car. We both stood there, Tyler rubbing the side of his neck and me holding a hand on my
chest, both of us knowing we'd gotten somewhere we'd never been and like the cat and
mouse in cartoons, we were still alive and wanted to see how far we could take this thing and
still be alive.
Tyler said, "Cool."
I said, hit me again.
Tyler said, "No, you hit me."
So I hit him, a girl's wide roundhouse to right under his ear, and Tyler shoved me back and
stomped the heel of his shoe in my stomach. What happened next and after that didn't
happen in words, but the bar closed and people came out and shouted around us in the
parking lot.

Instead of Tyler, I felt finally I could get my hands on everything in the world that didn't work,
my cleaning that came back with the collar buttons broken, the bank that says I'm hundreds of
dollars overdrawn. My job where my boss got on my computer and fiddled with my DOS
execute commands. And Marla Singer, who stole the support groups from me.
Nothing was solved when the fight was over, but nothing mattered.
The first night we fought was a Sunday night, and Tyler hadn't shaved all weekend so my
knuckles burned raw from his weekend beard. Lying on our backs in the parking lot, staring up
at the one star that came through the streetlights, I asked Tyler what he'd been fighting.
Tyler said, his father.
Maybe we didn't need a father to complete ourselves. There's nothing personal about who
you fight in fight club. You fight to fight. You're not supposed to talk about fight club, but we
talked and for the next couple of weeks, guys met in that parking lot after the bar had closed,
and by the time it got cold, another bar offered the basement where we meet now.
When fight club meets, Tyler gives the rules he and I decided. "Most of you," Tyler yells in the
cone of light in the center of the basement full of men, "you're here because someone broke
the rules. Somebody told you about fight club."
Tyler says, "Well, you better stop talking or you'd better start another fight club because next
week you put your name on a list when you get here, and only the first fifty names on the list
get in. If you get in, you set up your fight right away if you want a fight. If you don't want a
fight, there are guys who do, so maybe you should just stay home.
"If this is your first night at fight club," Tyler yells, "you have to fight."
Most guys are at fight club because of something they're too scared to fight. After a few
fights, you're afraid a lot less.
A lot of best friends meet for the first time at fight club. Now I go to meetings or conferences
and see faces at conference tables, accountants and junior executives or attorneys with
broken noses spreading out like an eggplant under the edges of bandages or they have a
couple stitches under an eye or a jaw wired shut. These are the quiet young men who listen
until it's time to decide.
We nod to each other.
Later, my boss will ask me how I know so many of these guys.
According to my boss, there are fewer and fewer gentlemen in business and more thugs.
The demo goes on.

Walter from Microsoft catches my eye. Here's a young guy with perfect teeth and clear skin
and the kind of job you bother to write the alumni magazine about getting. You know he was
too young to fight in any wars, and if his parents weren't divorced, his father was never home,
and here he's looking at me with half my face clean shaved and half a leering bruise hidden in
the dark. Blood shining on my lips. And maybe Walter's thinking about a meatless, painfree
potluck he went to last weekend or the ozone or the Earth's desperate need to stop cruel
product testing on animals, but probably he's not.

Chapter 6

ONE MORNING, THERE'S the dead jellyfish of a used condom floating in the toilet.
This is how Tyler meets Marla.
I get up to take a leak, and there against the sort of cave paintings of dirt in the toilet bowl is
this. You have to wonder, what do sperm think.
This?
This is the vaginal vault?
What's happening here?
All night long, I dreamed I was humping Marla Singer. Marla Singer smoking her cigarette.
Marla Singer rolling her eyes. I wake up alone in my own bed, and the door to Tyler's room is
closed. The door to Tyler's room is never closed. All night, it was raining. The shingles on the
roof blister, buckle, curl, and the rain comes through and collects on top of the ceiling plaster
and drips down through the light fixtures.
When it's raining, we have to pull the fuses. You don't dare turn on the lights. The house that
Tyler rents, it has three stories and a basement. We carry around candles. It has pantries and
screened sleeping porches and stained-glass windows on the stairway landing. There are bay
windows with window seats in the parlor. The baseboard moldings are carved and varnished
and eighteen inches high.
The rain trickles down through the house, and everything wooden swells and shrinks, and the
nails in everything wooden, the floors and baseboards and window casings, the nails inch out
and rust.

Everywhere there are rusted nails to step on or snag your elbow on, and there's only one
bathroom for the seven bedrooms, and now there's a used condom.
The house is waiting for something, a zoning change or a will to come out of probate, and
then it will be torn down. I asked Tyler how long he's been here, and he said about six weeks.
Before the dawn of time, there was an owner who collected lifetime stacks of the National
Geographic and Reader's Digest. Big teetering stacks of magazines that get taller every time it
rains. Tyler says the last tenant used to fold the glossy magazine pages for cocaine envelopes.
There's no lock on the front door from when police or whoever kicked in the door. There's
nine layers of wallpaper swelling on the dining-room walls, flowers under stripes under flowers
under birds under grasscloth.
Our only neighbors are a closed machine shop and across the street, a blocklong warehouse.
Inside the house, there's a closet with sevenfoot rollers for rolling up damask tablecloths so
they never have to be creased. There's a cedarlined, refrigerated fur closet. The tile in the
bathroom is painted with little flowers nicer than most everybody's wedding china, and there's
a used condom in the toilet.
I've been living with Tyler about a month.
I am Joe's White Knuckles.
How could Tyler not fall for that. The night before last, Tyler sat up alone, splicing sex organs
into Snow White.
How could I compete for Tyler's attention.
I am Joe's Enraged, Inflamed Sense of Rejection.
What's worse is this is all my fault. After I went to sleep last night, Tyler tells me he came home
from his shift as a banquet waiter, and Marla called again from the Regent Hotel. This was it,
Marla said. The tunnel, the light leading her down the tunnel. The death experience was so
cool, Marla wanted me to hear her describe it as she lifted out of her body and floated up.
Marla didn't know if her spirit could use the telephone, but she wanted someone to at least
hear her last breath.
No, but no, Tyler answers the phone and misunderstands the whole situation.
They've never met so Tyler thinks it's a bad thing that Marla is about to die.
It's nothing of the kind.
This is none of Tyler's business, but Tyler calls the police and Tyler races over to the Regent
Hotel.
Now, according to the ancient Chinese custom we all learned from television, Tyler is

responsible for Marla, forever, because Tyler saved Marla's life.
If I had only wasted a couple of minutes and gone over to watch Marla die, then none of this
would have happened.
Tyler tells me how Marla lives in room 8G, on the top floor of the Regent Hotel, up eight
flights of stairs and down a noisy hallway with canned television laughter coming through the
doors. Every couple seconds an actress screams or actors die screaming in a rattle of bullets.
Tyler gets to the end of the hallway and even before he knocks a thin, thin, buttermilk sallow
arm slingshots out the door of room 8G, grabs his wrist, and yanks Tyler inside.
I bury myself in a leader's Digest.
Even as Marla yanks Tyler into her room, Tyler can hear brake squeals and sirens collecting out
in front of the Regent Hotel. On the dresser, there's a dildo made of the same soft pink plastic
as a million Barbie dolls, and for a moment, Tyler can picture millions of baby dolls and Barbie
dolls and dildos injectionmolded and coming off the same assembly line in Taiwan.
Marla looks at Tyler looking at her dildo, and she rolls her eyes and says, "Don't be afraid. It's
not a threat to you."
Marla shoves Tyler back out into the hallway, and she says she's sorry, but he shouldn't have
called the police and that's probably the police downstairs right now.
In the hallway, Marla locks the door to 8G and shoves Tyler toward the stairs. On the stairs,
Tyler and Marla flatten against the wall as police and paramedics charge by with oxygen,
asking which door will be 8G.
Marla tells them the door at the end of the hall.
Marla shouts to the police that the girl who lives in 8G used to be a lovely charming girl, but
the girl is a monster bitch monster. The girl is infectious human waste, and she's confused and
afraid to commit to the wrong thing so she won't commit to anything.
"The girl in 8G has no faith in herself," Marla shouts, "and she's worried that as she grows
older, she'll have fewer and fewer options."
Marla shouts, "Good luck."
The police pile up at the locked door to 8G, and Marla and Tyler hurry down to the lobby.
Behind them, a policeman is yelling at the door:
"Let us help you! Miss Singer, you have every reason to live! Just let us in, Marla, and we can
help you with your problems!"
Marla and Tyler rushed out into the street. Tyler got Marla into a cab, and high up on the
eighth floor of the hotel, Tyler could see shadows moving back and forth across the windows

of Marla's room.
Out on the freeway with all the lights and the other cars, six lanes of traffic racing toward the
vanishing point, Marla tells Tyler he has to
keep her up all night. If Marla ever falls asleep, she'll die.
A lot of people wanted Marla dead, she told Tyler. These people were already dead and on the
other side, and at night they called on the telephone. Marla would go to bars and hear the
bartender calling her name, and when she took the call, the line was dead.
Tyler and Marla, they were up almost all night in the room next to mine. When Tyler woke up,
Marla had disappeared back to the Regent Hotel.
I tell Tyler, Marla Singer doesn't need a lover, she needs a case worker.
Tyler says, "Don't call this love."
Long story short, now Marla's out to ruin another part of my life. Ever since college, I make
friends. They get married. I lose friends.
Fine.
Neat, I say.
Tyler asks, is this a problem for me?
I am Joe's Clenching Bowels.
No, I say, it's fine.
Put a gun to my head and paint the wall with my brains.
Just great, I say. Really.

M Y B O S S S E N D S me home because of all the dried blood on my pants, and I am
overjoyed.

The hole punched through my cheek doesn't ever heal. I'm going to work, and my punched-
out eye sockets are two swollen-up black bagels around the little piss holes I have left to see

through. Until today, it really pissed me off that I'd become this totally centered Zen Master
and nobody had noticed. Still, I'm doing the little FAX thing. I write little HAIKU things and
FAX them around to everyone. When I pass people in the hall at work, I get totally ZEN right in
everyone's hostile little FACE.

Worker bees can leave
Even drones can fly away
The queen is their slave

You give up all your worldly possessions and your car and go live in a rented house in the
toxic waste part of town where late at night, you can hear Marla and Tyler in his room, calling
each other hum; butt wipe.
Take it, human butt wipe.
Do it, butt wipe.
Choke it down. Keep it down, baby.
Just by contrast, this makes me the calm little center of the world.
Me, with my punched-out eyes and dried blood in big black crusty stains on my pants, I'm
saying HELLO to everybody at work. HELLO! Look at me. HELLO! I am so ZEN. This is BLOOD.
This is NOTHING. Hello. Everything is nothing, and it's so cool to be ENLIGHTENED. Like me.
Sigh.
Look. Outside the window. A bird.
My boss asked if the blood was my blood.
The bird flies downwind. I'm writing a little haiku in my head.

Without just one nest
A bird can call the world home
Life is your career

I'm counting on my fingers: five, seven, five. The blood, is it mine? Yeah, I say. Some of it. This
is a wrong answer.

Like this is a big deal. I have two pair of black trousers. Six white shirts. Six pair of underwear.
The bare minimum. I go to fight club. These things happen. "Go home," my boss says. "Get
changed."
I'm starting to wonder if Tyler and Marla are the same person. Except for their humping, every
night in Marla's room.
Doing it.
Doing it.
Doing it.
Tyler and Marla are never in the same room. I never see them together.
Still, you never see me and Zsa Zsa Gabor together, and this doesn't mean we're the same
person. Tyler just doesn't come out when Marla's around.
So I can wash the pants, Tyler has to show me how to make soap. Tyler's upstairs, and the
kitchen is filled with the smell of cloves and burnt hair. Marla's at the kitchen table, burning
the inside of her arm with a clove cigarette and calling herself human butt wipe.
"I embrace my own festering diseased corruption," Marla tells the cherry on the end of her
cigarette. Marla twists the cigarette into the soft white belly of her arm. "Burn, witch, burn."
Tyler's upstairs in my bedroom, looking at his teeth in my mirror, and says he got me a job as a
banquet waiter, part time.
"At the Pressman Hotel, if you can work in the evening," Tyler says. "The job will stoke your
class hatred."
Yeah, I say, whatever.
"They make you wear a black bow tie," Tyler says. "All you need to work there is a white shirt
and black trousers."
Soap, Tyler. I say, we need soap. We need to make some soap. I need to wash my pants.
I hold Tyler's feet while he does two hundred sit-ups.
"To make soap, first we have to render fat." Tyler is full of useful information.
Except for their humping, Marla and Tyler are never in the same room. If Tyler's around, Marla
ignores him. This is familiar ground.
"The big sleep, `Valley of the Dogs' style.

"Where even if someone loves you enough to save your life, they still castrate you." Marla
looks at me as if I'm the one humping her and says, "I can't win with you, can I?"
Marla goes out the back door singing that creepy "Valley of the Dolls" song.
I just stare at her going.
There's one, two, three moments of silence until all of Marla is gone from the room.
I turn around, and Tyler's appeared.
Tyler says, "Did you get rid of her?"
Not a sound, not a smell, Tyler's just appeared.
"First," Tyler says and jumps from the kitchen doorway to digging in the freezer. "First, we
need to render some fat."
About my boss, Tyler tells me, if I'm really angry I should go to the post office and fill out a
change-of-address card and have all his mail forwarded to Rugby, North Dakota.
Tyler starts pulling out sandwich bags of frozen white stuff and dropping them in the sink.
Me, I'm supposed to put a big pan on the stove and fill it most of the way with water. Too little
water, and the fat will darken as it separates into tallow.
"This fat," Tyler says, "it has a lot of salt so the more water, the better."
Put the fat in the water, and get the water boiling.
Tyler squeezes the white mess from each sandwich bag into the water, and then Tyler buries
the empty bags all the way at the bottom of the trash.
Tyler says, "Use a little imagination. Remember all that pioneer shit they taught you in Boy
Scouts. Remember your high school chemistry."
It's hard to imagine Tyler in Boy Scouts.

Another thing I could do, Tyler tells me, is I could drive to my boss's house some night and
hook a hose up to an outdoor spigot. hook the hose to a hand pump, and I could inject the
house plumbing with a charge of industrial dye. Red or blue or green, and wait to see how my
boss looks the next day. Or, I could just sit in the bushes and pump the hand pump until the
plumbing was superpressurized to 110 psi. This way, when someone goes to flush a toilet, the
toilet tank will explode. At 150 psi, if someone turns on the shower, the water pressure will
blow off the shower head, strip the threads, blam, the shower head turns into a mortar shell.